WeasyPrint: A Python library that renders HTML to PDF using the CSS Box Model. It supports various CSS features and is suitable for complex document generation.
pdfkit: A wrapper around the popular wkhtmltopdf tool, which converts HTML to PDF. It is widely used for its simplicity and compatibility with various platforms.
ReportLab: A pure Python library for generating PDF documents from scratch. While not HTML-based, it allows for more custom designs.

`xhtml2pdf (formerly pisa) is another Python library that can convert HTML and CSS into PDF. It has a slightly different approach from pdfkit, focusing more on PDF creation from XHTML and CSS, making it a viable alternative for creating PDFs from HTML content. To use xhtml2pdf, you need to install it along with FastAPI and other dependencies.


# Install FastAPI, Uvicorn, and xhtml2pdf
pip install fastapi uvicorn xhtml2pdf


uvicorn main:app --reload


HTML to PDF API Services
If you prefer a cloud-based solution for HTML-to-PDF conversion, you can use API services like PDFCrowd or DocRaptor. These services typically offer RESTful APIs that convert HTML to PDF, allowing you to integrate with FastAPI endpoints.

Example: FastAPI Endpoint Using PDFCrowd
To use PDFCrowd, you need an API key, which requires creating an account on their website. Here's an example of how to use PDFCrowd to convert HTML to PDF in a FastAPI endpoint:


WeasyPrint:
The error message you're encountering suggests that there's a problem with loading a library that's 
required for WeasyPrint, which relies on gobject-2.0 (part of the GNOME libraries) and other components like cairo, pango, and GTK. This could happen due to several reasons, such as missing packages, incorrect installation, or misconfigured environment variables.


sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install libcairo2 libpango-1.0-0 libpangocairo-1.0-0 libgobject-2.0-0 libglib2.0-dev


Here's a step-by-step guide to resolve this issue:






Top Node.js and JavaScript HTML-to-PDF Conversion Libraries
https://docraptor.com/node-html-to-pdf